Organized battalions, the offensive policy, the organization of the uprising, the unification of individual uprisings - that, according to Engels, is necessary for the victory of the uprising.
We must work, not rallies.
Socialism and democracy are invincible.
We Bolsheviks do not believe in miracles.
So, how to organize the power?
Talkers have no place in operational work.
We do not want a single inch of foreign land. But we will not give up our land, not a single inch to anyone.
What our enemies like is harmful to us.
Leninism is a generalization of the experience of the revolutionary movement of the workers of all countries.
Colonies are the Achilles heel of imperialism.
Stalin to Hitler: “Friendship of the peoples of Germany and the Soviet Union, sealed with blood, has every reason to be long-lasting and lasting. Happy New Year 1939!"
We have no prisoners, we only have traitors.
As for the class nature of our state, I have already said above that Lenin gave the most precise formulation on this subject, which does not allow any misunderstandings: a workers' state with a bureaucratic perversion in a country with a predominance of the peasant population. It seems clear.
Provocation is a tried and tested means of counter-revolution.
Opportunism is ... this is unscrupulousness, political spinelessness ...
It is not arrogance, but modesty that adorns the Bolshevik.
We Bolsheviks are accustomed to tossing around big things and often, doing the biggest things, do not notice this.
Healthy distrust is a good basis for joint work.
I am not Georgian - I am Russian of Georgian origin!
Not a step back! This should now be our main appeal.
Intervention by proxy —  this is now the root of imperialist intervention.
The Chekist has only two ways - to be promoted or to prison.
It is not for us, who have experienced the shame of the Brest peace, to sing the Versailles Treaty.
If the theater begins with a hanger, then such plays should be hung up. the working people could take it.
Leninism is Marxism of the era of imperialism and the proletarian revolution.
We want to have a state apparatus as a means of servicing the masses of the people, and some people in this state apparatus want to turn it into an article of feeding. That is why the apparatus as a whole is false.
It takes a very brave person to be a coward in the Soviet Army.
Provocation is a tried and tested means of counter-revolution ...
There are no fortresses in the world that the working people, the Bolsheviks, could not take.
Decrease in wages, increase of the working day, the weakening of the proletariat and the destruction of its organizations - such is the goal of the general union of capitalists.
Shouting about the land and the peasants is easier than actually handing over the land to the peasants.
... democracy is not something given for all times and conditions, for there are moments when there is no possibility and no point in carrying it out.
Holding power on the next day of the revolution is no less important than taking power.
Autonomy does not imply independence.
Of course, criticism is necessary and obligatory, but on one condition: if it is not fruitless.
Walked from house to house he knocked on the door of strangers. Under the old oak panduri A simple motive sounded. In his melody and in the song, As pure as a sunbeam, There lived a great truth - a Divine dream. Hearts turned to stone Wake up a lonely melody. The flame dormant in the darkness Soared higher than the trees.But people who have forgotten God, Keeping darkness in their hearts, Instead of wine, poured poison into his cup. They told him: “Damn! Drink the cup to the bottom!.. And your song is alien to us, And your truth is not needed!
It's time to say decisively and irrevocably that you need to fight with enemies, and not agree. organization of power. But you don't have power yet.
What is right in one historical stop may turn out to be wrong in another historical situation.
The cinema is the greatest means of mass agitation. The task is to take this matter into our own hands.
The capitalists are not empty talkers. They are business people. They know that the fundamental question of revolution and counter-revolution is the question of power.
Everything has its time and place, and what becomes reactionary tomorrow may be revolutionary today.
The dictatorship of the proletariat and the revolutionary peasantry means the dictatorship of the working majority over the exploiting minority, over over landowners and capitalists, over speculators and bankers, in the name of democratic peace, in the name of workers' control over production and distribution, in the name of land for the peasants, in the name of bread for the people.
Two disciplines cannot be carried out: one for the workers and the other for the nobles . Discipline should be the same.
Chatterboxes have no place in operational work.
I know that after my death, a pile of garbage will be put on my grave, but the wind of history will ruthlessly dispel it.
... they regarded our generosity as weakness.
What is right in one historical stop may be wrong in another historical setting.
Two disciplines cannot be carried out. : one for the workers, and the other for the nobles. There must be only one discipline.
From the lowest proletarian, comrades, to the great leader, there is only one step. And this is a step towards communism.
A nation is sovereign, and all nations are equal.
There is no doubt that you can organize what you have, you cannot organize the power that others hold.
You cannot confuse right with duty.
Democracy is not something given for of all times and conditions, because there are moments when there is no possibility and sense to spend it.
A good life is not given for nothing.
Capitalists are not empty talkers. They are business people. They know that the fundamental question of revolution and counter-revolution is the question of power.
Victory never comes by itself, it is usually dragged along.
I believe that it is absolutely unimportant who and how will vote in the party; but what is extremely important is who will count the votes and how.
In our time, it is not customary to reckon with the weak, only the strong are reckoned with.
The liberal bourgeoisie rules in the Duma, and this bourgeoisie enters into an alliance with the government and breaks with the workers and peasants . Hence the weakness of the Duma.
Comrades! Compatriots and compatriots! The great day of victory over Germany has come.Fascist Germany, brought to its knees by the Red Army and the troops of our allies, recognized itself defeated and declared unconditional surrender. From now on, the great banner of freedom of peoples and peace among peoples will fly over Europe.
Every problem has a last name, first name, patronymic.
Three years ago, Hitler publicly declared that his task was to dismember the Soviet Union and separate the Caucasus, Ukraine, Belarus, and the Baltic states from it. and other areas. He stated bluntly: "We will destroy Russia so that she can never rise again." It was three years ago. But Hitler's extravagant ideas were not destined to come true - the course of the war dispelled them to dust.
The death of one is a tragedy! The death of millions is a statistic...
It should be noted that Mr. Churchill and his friends are strikingly reminiscent of Hitler and his friends in this respect. Hitler began the business of starting the war by proclaiming the racial theory, declaring that only German-speaking people constituted a complete nation. Mr. Churchill also begins the work of unleashing war with racial theory, arguing that only nations that speak English are full-fledged nations, called upon to decide the fate of the whole world. German racial theory led Hitler and his friends to the conclusion that the Germans, as the only complete nation, should dominate other nations. The English racial theory leads Mr. Churchill and his friends to the conclusion that the nations that speak the English language, as the only full-fledged ones, should dominate the rest of the nations of the world.
As history shows, there are no invincible armies.
Once Stalin was informed that Marshal Rokossovsky had a mistress and this was the famous beauty actress Valentina Serova. And what are we going to do with them now? Stalin took the pipe out of his mouth, thought for a moment and said: “What will we, what will we ... we will envy!”
Is this possible? Of course, it is possible, if not excluded.
It is difficult to agree that the lack of resistance from the Germans on the western front is due only to the fact that they were defeated. The Germans have 147 divisions on the eastern front. Without prejudice to their cause, they could withdraw 15-20 divisions from the eastern front and transfer them to help their troops on the western front. However, the Germans did not and do not do this. They continue to fight furiously with the Russians for some little-known Zemlyanitsa station in Czechoslovakia, which they need as much as a dead poultice, but without any resistance they surrender such important cities in the center of Germany as Osnabrück, Mannheim, Kassel. Agree that such behavior of the Germans is more than strange and incomprehensible.
Of course, criticism is necessary and obligatory, but on one condition: if it is not fruitless.
Cadres decide everything.
